We extend a warm welcome to all of you.
This is the January 2020 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Excitement was in the air as brothers and sisters from around the world
poured into the assembly hall in New York for the annual meeting on October 5, 2019.
Encouraging reports and thrilling announcements gave clear evidence of Jehovah's
blessing on the preaching work. Now you will year it for yourself.
Please enjoy the first part of the 2019 annual meeting.
I've chosen the theme. Your leader is one, the Christ, based on Matthew 23, verse 10.
Starting out with Nimrod of Babylon, the world has seen many leaders, religious leaders,
political leaders. When Hitler ruled Nazi Germany, Nazis created a slogan,
one people, one empire, one leader. Well, what happened to that leader?
After causing the death of millions during World War II, he reportedly ended his life by suicide.
Human leaders have failed. Why? For one, most did not have enough love for God and for the people.
They used their position to acquire wealth, fame, power. Others might have had noble intentions,
but still failed. Why? Imperfect man does not have the ability to rule or lead others perfectly.
In Bible times, Jehovah was the leader of the ancient people of Israel, he said,
according to Leviticus 1145, for I am Jehovah who is leading you up out of the land of Egypt
to prove myself God to you. However, Jehovah appointed Moses as visible leader
representing him, although he was imperfect. Later, he appointed Joshua, then the judges,
then the kings. However, the people sometimes rejected their leadership.
Today, a leader exists whose leadership is perfect, Jesus Christ. He was appointed by Jehovah.
We have a leader who is sinless, different from any other human. He is perfect in wisdom and in righteousness.
He is more powerful than all human leaders together. He is also perfect in love.
He is a leader that gave his life for the people. Do we all appreciate his leadership? I am sure we do.
Jesus provided leadership by personal example at the same time showing humility in dealing with others.
He would show love for his disciples throughout the centuries until today, strengthening them when persecuted.
He would never abandon them as he also indicated in Matthew 28, 19 and 20.
Do you want to follow his lead? I trust you do.
In the first century, at Pentecost 33 CE, the Christian congregation was formed,
but there was a governing body of mature Christians, namely the apostles, who were responsible to take the lead.
When some of them were killed or died of sickness or old age, other anointed ones were appointed to serve on that body.
Similarly, today, there is no specific number on the modern day governing body.
In the first century, the governing body was not only led by the spirit, but in matters of doctrine, even inspired.
Today, it is not inspired, but still led by the spirit.
Today, our recognizing Christ's leadership involves submission to and cooperation with his spiritual brothers and with other appointed overseers.
After Brother Russell, Brother Rutherford became the president of the society or a human leader at that time.
Whereas at the beginning of his presidency, he strongly emphasized his position.
He changed his attitude later, realizing he was not to be considered the number one or the leader.
The book, Jehovah's Witnesses Proclaimers of God's Kingdom, says on pages 220 and 21, quote,
at a conventionist and Louis Missouri in 1941 shortly before his death.
He spoke about the matter of leadership, saying, I want to let any strangers here know what you think about a man being you a leader, so they won't forget.
If there's any person in this audience who thinks that I, this man standing here, is the leader of Jehovah's Witnesses, say yes.
Where the response was an impressive silence.
Broken only by an emphatic no from several in the audience.
The speaker continued, if you who are here believe that I am just one of the servants of the Lord and you're working shoulder to shoulder in unity, serving God and serving Christ, say yes.
And in unison, the assembly roared out a decisive yes. End of quote.
From January 1942 to June 1977, rather Nathan Homer nor served as president of the society.
Gradually, by divine influence, authority was shifted more and more from the president to a governing body, as the meaning of the term and the function was understood increasingly better.
Today, Jesus is still the leader providing leadership for the congregations. He also directs the worldwide preaching work from heaven.
However, he has delegated leadership to the faithful and discreet slave, the governing body, through whom he provides spiritual food at the proper time in line with Matthew 24, 45 to 47.
No member of the governing body has the title leader, since Jesus said that none of his disciples should be called leader, Matthew 23, 10 to 12.
The term governing body was used by us for the first time in the watchtower of 1944, November 1.
Page 328 in the article, Theocratic organization in action. But the fact that in 1944 there was no governing body with collective decision making in operation yet.
A historic change came on September 6, 1971. It was resolved that the championship of the governing body would rotate annually among its members, doing so alphabetically.
On October 1, 1971, Frederick William France became the chairman of the governing body for one year, according to Proclaimers book page 106 and 7.
Starting with 1971, the number of the members of the governing body was raised. Gradually, there were 18 members.
When the governing body was formed, it was put in writing that all members consider themselves as equals to others. None were more equal than the others.
Who was the number one among the 12 apostles? Well, none of them. Revelation 21 and 14 says that in a figurative description, you know, of the New Jerusalem,
the Messianic Kingdom, that there would be 12 apostles of the Lamb. And no apostle is shown in this text as being superior to another.
The governing body also appoints helpers to assist them. This was instituted in 1992.
Each of the governing body committees has helpers. They are over 30 helpers now. They participated the meetings of the governing body committee to which they were assigned.
They do not share in decision-making, but are offering observations and suggestions, and also they carry out the decisions made by the respective governing body committee.
The governing body also appoints branch committees and country committees in different parts of the world, and they take oversight over one or more countries.
Now, who is the number one on the branch committee? None. Christ is number one. Branch committees also have a chairman that rotates each year alphabetically.
This is in place since 1976 already. The chairman of the US branch starting this coming January is Brother Long Schilling.
Who is the leader among congregation elders? Although all of them are to take the lead, none of them is to be considered number one. There is no rotation in place.
In a sense, we could say that Jesus is number one or the leader. He is the head of the congregation. The coordinators of the body of elders do not rotate, but they are aware that all elders are equals. None are more equals than the others.
Well, is Christ's leadership real to you? Well, we are not following a man. Be determined to study more about our leader, imitating him in our personal lives.
Jehovah will love you if you follow his appointed leader now. And if you do, you may get the privilege to follow him forever after into all eternity.
We now have the privilege to hear from Brother Steve Lett of the governing body. He will address the subject of our relief ministry used by Jehovah to provide relief.
Jehovah is a wonderful God of comfort and relief. In stark contrast, Satan the devil is a horrible God of pain and suffering. In fact, if we think about it, even the so-called natural disasters that cause a lot of pain and suffering, Satan is the ultimate cause. Why can we say that?
Well, by alienating humans from Jehovah, Satan deprived them of the creator lovingly controlling the weather for their benefit.
Additionally, humans under Satan's rule have grossly mismanaged the earth and its environmental provisions resulting in erratic weather swings which undoubtedly contributes to the so-called natural disasters.
But how thankful, as we said, Jehovah is a God of comfort and relief. And one way he lives up to this title is by empowering and motivating us to share in a relief ministry in behalf of our brothers who have been pummeled by some catastrophe.
And when we allow Jehovah to use this in this way, we're actually imitating our first century brothers and sisters.
Please go to Acts chapter 11, verse 29, the setting is about the year 46 CE. Our brothers in Judea are suffering from a terrible famine.
Being unable to pay the sky high prices for food, they're very hungry. They're even facing starvation.
So what did their brothers in Antioch, their Jewish and Gentile brothers do for these brothers in Judea?
Well, let's read beginning of verse 29, so the disciples determined each according to what he could afford to send relief to the brothers living in Judea.
And this they did sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Now you can just imagine how appreciative those brothers facing starvation in Judea were to receive this aid from their brothers in Antioch.
And you can just imagine how appreciative Jehovah was for what the ones in Antioch did for their very needy brothers.
And this Bible account is just one of several about our brothers in one area performing a relief ministry in behalf of others living elsewhere who are very needy.
Now we ask this, how specifically does Jehovah provide comfort and relief by means of our relief ministry? Well here are three ways.
One, physical relief is given. See, our brothers immediate needs regarding food, clothing, shelter, medicine, first aid supplies are provided to emotional relief is given.
See, assurance is given that they're not alone. Jehovah is with them and their brothers are with them in this time of distress.
But most importantly, spiritual relief is given. We make sure that our brothers have what they need to resume immediately their spiritual routine observing Jehovah.
But now in order to continue their spiritual routine long term, their lives and their circumstances have to be stabilized.
This often requires either repairing or rebuilding their kingdoms, repairing or even many cases rebuilding their homesy.
And then they can continue in this spiritual routine.
In fact, enjoy please this video showing how our brothers in Indonesia were helped to resume quickly their spiritual routine after the devastating earthquake and tsunami of 2018.
Four days after the earthquake, evacuation of 132 people began.
On Thursday morning, the day after the evacuation, four of us from the branch arrived in Posa.
We combined the meeting of Posa and Barlo congregations was held and our talk was delivered by a member of the branch committee.
It was important to check out of the spiritual needs of the brothers and sisters. And amazingly, not a single meeting was missed.
And several of us from the branch office give encouraging talks to the publishers there.
Meeting for field service were also held and the publishers. They went out preaching just a couple of days after they had arrived.
We had the opportunity to go out preaching in Poso. Many people were interested in discussing the events that took place in Barlo.
They listened to the Bible's message and asked to be visited again.
After meeting for field service at the Poso Kingdom Hall, we had the opportunity to play sign language videos from GW.org to several deaf ones.
Even though we were struck by natural disaster, we were still able to carry out spiritual routines.
I am very grateful to Jehovah, the brothers from the branch office and others whose prayers, examples and presents will help us to endure and keep on relying on Jehovah no matter what.
By means of our relief ministry, we prove we are imitators of the God of comfort and relief.
And we also prove that we are obeying the commanded Ephesians 5.1 and 2, which says become imitators of God as beloved children and go on walking in love.
Now if you think about it, we are really created to imitate Jehovah. We are made in his image, aren't we?
In contrast, animals cannot imitate Jehovah, the God of unselfish love and comfort and relief.
For example, you can't imagine a dog thinking to himself, you know, I really feel bad about taking that bone away from the other dog.
In the future, I'm really going to try to be more unselfish.
You can't imagine a horse looking up at a beautiful sunset.
My, that sunset makes me love my creator more. I'm going to try to please him more in the future.
You can't imagine an eagle praying. Lord, thank you very much for the fish I'm about to eat.
No animals are not made in God's image, we are. We can imitate our wonderful God of comfort and relief and of love.
But here's a question, how does our relief ministry glorify Jehovah? Well, here are three ways we'll discuss.
Number one, it proves that we are true Christians. And that reflects well on our God.
Secondly, it unites us as brothers and sisters. It unites us in love and prayer.
As soon as we hear about a disaster affecting our brothers, what do we do?
We start praying for them, don't we? And then as we start giving them relief, they start praying for us.
And they start working in harmony with us. That's the second way we're united in activity.
We bring in the action to help our brothers and they do what they can to support our efforts in their behalf.
In fact, please enjoy this video, relief workers from the United States, Indonesia and Africa,
springing into action to help their brothers.
We are so happy to be able to come and help rebuild the damaged houses so that the brothers feel secure living in them.
We see this as evidence that we have brotherly love toward one another.
It's been a faith-strengthening event, not just for the families affected directly by the fire, but for all of us helping out.
We've had the privilege to watch Jehovah do so much for his people.
Physically, emotionally, spiritually, mentally, it's very faith-strengthening to know that Jehovah never abandons us.
Right after the cyclone hit here in Barrow, we were privileged to be able to come up here and help out.
It felt really good to be there, to be able to help the brothers to face an extremely difficult situation.
I learned a lot during this time, always, always, always, follow Jehovah's direction. This is good for us.
We're actually putting a roof back on their kingdom while it was completely destroyed during the storm.
And the idea is the memorials next week, they're going to be able to come back to their kingdom hall, which will be fixed up and celebrate the memorial.
So we're happy to be a part of that.
Additionally, we're united in giving contributions.
See, we give generously as cheerful givers.
And those who have been helped, what do they do? Subsequently, they in turn help others who are afflicted with their contributions.
In fact, here are some statistics about the great magnitude of our relief ministry just during the past two service years.
Now, during these two service years alone, more than 900,000 of our brothers have been affected, almost a million.
62,000 of them being displaced, 190 injured, sadly, 64 were killed.
More than 700 kingdom halls were damaged or destroyed. More than 15,000 homes damaged are destroyed.
The organization spent $49.5 million on relief efforts just during these two service years.
I mean, that's almost $50 million, just two service years.
Obviously, our relief ministry has taken on gigantic proportions.
To help you appreciate how your donations are being used, please enjoy this video showing before and after pictures of homes of our brothers after Cyclone EDI struck in Africa.
Just for your information, those homes that were rebuilt, that you saw there, some were rebuilt, some were repaired, the cost to repair range from $50 to $900 per home, the cost to rebuild was from $900 to $3,500 for each home.
As you saw, the rebuilt homes are not extravagant, but the brothers often ended up with something a lot better than what they had before because of the use of improved building materials.
And undoubtedly, this will help them better weather future storms.
But at this point, we'd like to just take a moment and thank you, dear brothers, commend you for your generous, generous contributions, which make our relief ministry possible.
You can be sure Jehovah is well pleased.
In fact, in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 16 were told, moreover, do not forget to do good and to share what you have with others.
For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
And I love that thought, not just pleased, he's well pleased with your generosity. So thank you very much. And the governing body, thanks you from the bottom of our hearts, our brothers and sisters who have been helped.
They thank you from the bottom of their hearts. In fact, enjoy this video and you're going to see some of the brothers in the United States and Africa expressing their appreciation.
Jehovah has really helped us out in this disaster. Using the brotherhood to strengthen and encourage us in ways we've never seen before. And it's really drawn us closer to him.
Jehovah, through his organization, gave me two wonderful people that were there to take care of my needs, my wants.
Everything I needed was handled through them, just having someone that you can talk to, just having people that care.
I've been in the truth almost 50 years and I've always had friends and it's always been loving and good but I have never felt as loved by Jehovah.
The service department called and warned that a big storm would arrive one Thursday.
We saw the true love that the branch office had for us and we followed their example. We risked our lives to inform the brothers to come to the Kingdom Hall.
The brothers from the branch were constantly in contact with us. I found that really encouraging until very late in the evening they were sending us messages, telling us that they are still up praying for us. Those messages were a great comfort to us.
The organization has been helping us so much emotionally. The branch sent representatives to provide shepherding and also a variety of food, good nutritious food.
All of this has really been impressive and we want to thank Jehovah for the way he's been caring for us.
What Jehovah's organization is doing right now is far superior to anything the human governments have been doing.
We really want to say thank you. We really feel Jehovah's love.
Seeing that video motivates us even more so to want to help our brothers by means of our donations but also by means of our labor.
Speaking of labor, we're happy to inform you that later in our program Brother Loosh will tell you about a new provision for applying to help with relief work and other needs in the organization.
Stay tuned for that revealing of that information.
Now one more way, a third way, our relief ministry gives a good witness and glorifies Jehovah is that it gives a good witness to onlookers and that glorifies Jehovah.
Neighbors, family members, government officials see our love in action as a result some actually come into the truth.
Please enjoy this video, an unbelieving husband coming into the truth as a result of our relief ministry.
I always loved my family. I wanted the best for them, so I worked to provide for them. That's my duty.
My wife got baptized two years before me. I built our home right here, then one day our lives changed forever. This is my house, so I have to start again.
Two brothers came to see me. They said, don't worry about a thing. Everything will be alright. The brothers will take care of it.
I thought, hmm, I don't know if he knows what he's talking about.
When the brothers started showing up at my place to help, I was thinking, why would they help me? They don't know me.
Every morning I watched the brothers, when they finished praying, everyone grabbed their tools and got to work.
I told my wife that this, this is unbelievable.
When I saw an elderly sister carrying concrete blocks, they were so heavy for them. I ran inside with tears in my eyes. I didn't want anyone to see me cry.
I thought, something is wrong with them for sure, or something is wrong with me.
I began to appreciate what they did and how they acted.
A lot of love. That's the only way I can put it. A lot of love.
They even shared their food with me. They made it clear that this work was a sign of Jehovah's love.
And all those things touched my heart. They let me know that, man, this organization is for real and it's the truth.
I wanted to be part of that. I decided to give my life to Jehovah because he showed me how much he loves both me and my family.
Now I take care of my family better than ever before.
So in review, our relief ministry is a loving expression from the God of comfort and relief whom we serve.
By means of it, Jehovah uses us to provide physical, emotional and spiritual relief to our brothers.
And it glorifies Jehovah by one, identifying us as true Christians, too, by uniting us as brothers and sisters in love, prayer, action, and giving contributions.
And it glorifies Jehovah number three by attracting honest-hearted ones to the truth.
How happy we are that soon, Jehovah will provide permanent relief.
There will be no more disasters. But until that grand time, we will continue to exert ourselves in our relief ministry in behalf of our brothers.
Doing so will help us remain focused on spiritual things. It will unite us as brothers and sisters and it will give a unique witness to onlookers and it will help prepare us for the great tribulation
and the great reconstruction to follow.
Thank you, Brother Lett. It's a relief to know that the Brotherhood provides relief in times of disaster, isn't it?
We now have a video we invite you to enjoy. It is entitled, The Good Hand of Our God is upon us. Let us get up and build.
Jehovah's organization now cares for almost 80,000 buildings worldwide, with a total area of more than 215 million square feet or 20 million square meters.
That is the area of about 2,800 soccer fields or six times the area of Central Park in Manhattan.
The scores of branch office buildings, hundreds of assembly halls and tens of thousands of kingdom halls around the world provide tangible proof that God's kingdom is ruling.
Why can we say that?
As Psalm 1271 reminds us, none of this would be possible without Jehovah's blessing.
Like Nehemiah and the Jews who rebuilt Jerusalem's walls, we are confident that the Good Hand of Our God is upon us.
These buildings have been dedicated to Jehovah, so it is a privilege for us to make sure they continue to measure up to the purpose for which they were built.
Our branch facilities are especially well maintained. Some of these properties are relatively new, but many others are 30 or more years old.
A building itself may last 30, 60 or even 100 years, but building systems may reach the end of their life after only 15 or 20 years, so many of our facilities are need of major renovation or replacement.
Activities at Bethel are also changing, so interior layouts sometimes need to be updated.
All of this presents a challenge. How do we take care of our Bethel facilities and still keep up with the work on our kingdom halls?
Indeed, what is the need? How can we address it? And how can you help?
Join us now on an encouraging trip around the world.
We want to show you what's being done and plan for our branch facilities. Fasten your seat belts, please. This report will be moving quickly.
Our brains are not good at noticing gradual change. For this reason, the organization began a program a few years ago to evaluate the current and future needs of our properties every two to three years.
And based on this assessment, a decision can be made for each property on whether or not to renovate and what that should involve.
At times, it makes more sense to renovate or redevelop what we already have. Major renovations have already started in branches that need it the most.
The government body would like to see more of the Bethelites care for their own personal services. The offices always used to be individual for one person.
Now, it's better if the office is open and use dividers because these can be easily changed, modified according to the necessity of the work.
Well, Patterson is a beautiful and practical complex. I don't think anyone envisioned when the complex was built that we would have over a thousand of our brothers and sisters visiting Bethel every day.
But having a visitor center is going to give them an improved tour experience here at Patterson and at the same time make sure that departments are able to do their work.
In 2013, the government body decided to merge the Finland branch with several other branches.
Additionally, the oldest parts of the facility were almost 60 years old. We had been printing literature in Finland for 83 years.
But now, under the guidance of the government body was decided that we will stop printing in Finland and use the space of the old printer for new offices and other purposes.
We were a little concerned where would we find all the needed volunteers.
When we told about our needs to local congregations, the applications started to flow in.
We realized that here we have all fine young brothers and sisters. It has been really touching to see their willing spirit.
Sometimes it's not practical to renovate a property, so we would purchase or build new buildings and then sell the old ones.
This was recently decided, for example, in Argentina, Cameroon and India.
Our Bethel family decreased from around 350 to 160.
The multiple buildings were spread across several properties and with the reduction, many of them were no longer being used.
It was decided that our Bethel facilities resolved and to begin a search for a new Bethel facility.
The timing had to be precise between the purchase and construction of a new facility and the sale of all current properties.
We saw Jehovah's direction clearly. On the one hand, we had the sale of all the properties and on the other hand, the purchase of the new process.
Both processes climaxed within the same 24-hour period.
The kingdom preaching work has sped up in our branch territory. We've experienced a 4% increase in Cameroon like we've never experienced before.
We're now translating into 29 different languages. We did consider renovating our present location.
But how do you continue the work in a tiny branch while a renovation is happening around you?
We had a piece of land right next to one of our major assembly halls in one of the biggest cities in our branch territory.
But sadly, the access was terrible. A dirty muddy road, very difficult to access either in car or on foot.
All of a sudden something amazing happens. The local government decides to build a road ranked outside our assembly hall, thus giving us access to this piece of land.
It was Jehovah saying this is the piece of land where you should build a new Cameroon rush.
Our facility was now oversized for our real needs. The governing body directed that we sell this property, relocate the branch to a more economical facility.
We realized that we were millions of dollars short of the needed funds.
We needed a buyer who would agree to buy the facility at the right price, give us enough money in advance to pay for the new branch,
and allow us to keep using the existing branch till the new one is ready. We felt very helpless.
It was a few days before we were scheduled to sign up for the new branch, a buyer who'd shown interest, but had not yet committed anything, signed a binding agreement and met all our conditions.
He also provided a large amount of non-refundable deposit to help us to purchase the new branch.
Nothing is impossible for Jehovah. He timed everything perfectly.
Many more projects like these are in the planning stage. We want all of our properties to keep meeting the organization's needs and reflecting well on Jehovah.
Besides renovations, many of our branch facilities are again being used to capacity.
The number of publishers, commuters, remote volunteers and Bethelites has increased worldwide.
Some countries have seen an increase of 5, 7 or more percent in the number of publishers each year.
More work is also being done worldwide in translation, video production, digital publishing, and other important areas.
The organization pursues every avenue to make our Bethel operations more efficient, but we will always need people to do much of the work.
Therefore, planning has already begun to see where additional expansion might be needed.
We have many World Headquarters departments involved in the planning process to get input, also the branch committee is involved in this.
Before any facility is recommended for expansion, questions are asked. For example, is this expansion going to directly advance the preaching and teaching activity in the country?
Could it be that with some operational changes the function of the branch could be discontinued in some way or outsourced or simplified in some way to mean that we wouldn't need to expand?
With recent changes in Bethel operations, it is possible for us now to buy standard apartments and offices for a Bethel facility, if we need more offices and apartments we buy them from the market.
And as these options are investigated, we look for Jehovah's Hand in this, what is evidence that his spirit is behind one of these options?
The governing body has asked all of us to give priority to those activities that contribute the most to the spiritual welfare of God's people and the advancement of the global preaching work.
This principle helps us to prioritize our efforts worldwide.
There is definitely a lot to do, but it is really exciting to see the good hand of Jehovah on his people today.
The brothers and sisters everywhere are zealously supporting this work with their time, financial resources and prayers.
We are confident that Jehovah God will continue to bless the collective efforts to provide the facilities the organization needs.
And the skills we are learning do not only benefit us now, but into the future, right into God's new world.
Thank you brothers for bringing us up to date on what is happening with our Bethel facilities around the world.
When Nehemiah prepared to rebuild Jerusalem's walls, he took a prayerful and practical approach.
Jehovah blessed that approach because Nehemiah acted in faith and relied fully on Jehovah.
When the people saw that Jehovah's good hand was on Nehemiah, they said, let us get up and build.
Well the governing body today makes facility decisions in a similar way.
They prayerfully analyze what is needed, they make sure we have the necessary resources to finish the work, and then they present to God's people what they have in mind to do and ask for their support.
So what is left for us to say?
Thank you for your loyal support in the days ahead of all these important initiatives.
Jehovah will bless you too for your willing and generous spirit.
And now it's time for us to get up and build.
Maintenance, renovation and new construction are ongoing projects.
But how does the governing body decide when and where to build new facilities?
We searched our archived video files and found some comments from some brothers who were involved in property acquisition in years past.
These comments predate the more recent decision to move World Headquarters out of Brooklyn, New York.
Please enjoy this faith strengthening video entitled A Historic Look at Property Acquisition.
Back in 1926 the Rutherford wanted to have a block for 30 Columbia Heights.
And he tried to buy it and they kept it in problems and obstacles. So finally told him to get something else.
1927, Squibbottom, and in that block they had to sink over 1,600 pilings, eight inch cylinders,
some as much as 90 feet to get solid terrain and fill all those of concrete.
It's a tremendous expense. Had the society got a purpose to build there, they may not have had the money to do the two jobs, the footings and the building.
So there was a case where Jehovah blocked it because of that and finally we got 117 out of this.
Well, I was down in North Carolina at the paper mill that makes all of our Bible paper.
And I happened to mention too, we're trying to expand in Brooklyn with discount fine property.
And the president said, would you be interested in Squibbottom?
I said, we sure would, we don't think that's available. He said I can tie you in on that if you're interested.
So he got a hole in the settle up for three million cash.
We never expect to get it for that. There's ten buildings on the phone.
This case just shows your whole direction matters.
Well, originally the reason we bought the what-star farm, the family was growing here in Brooklyn.
And mountain farm was limited because it was only a hundred and some acres.
So Broughtonore approved this buying a piece of land.
But it was as the Georgia got one place in mind, Goble's Farm.
Georgia is the same place I want to look at. So we went up there without a Friday.
The brother there said to both Georgian Max, well you know we just had a family business meeting just a few days ago.
And we want to sell our property, our farm.
And the interesting thing is, Broughtonore said this is only going to be for a farm.
Don't get any ideas of anything else. It's for a farm.
Well back in 1960 when we bought that much land, we had no idea of a printer rep.
But what did the Lord have in mind for it? He had in mind to put the printer there.
We were zealously going after a farm, but we didn't need string beans and potatoes.
We needed books and bibles printed up there. And so we see the good results of it today.
What a difference. Who could ever think that watchtower farms could turn into being the United States branch of Jehovah's Witnesses.
That to me is a wonderful example of Jehovah leading the organization.
So we started in 1980 looking for suitable property out of the city for expansion.
One time we looked at the piece of property over in Jersey it was an old school.
The buildings were so bad we never got them fixed up.
And so we told the real estate man know we really don't want them.
I know he's looking anymore. Well he got a little upset and he said, well what do you want?
And I said what we really want is something up near Soffron or Brewster, about five, six hundred acres of land where there's roads and hills and scenery and water and all that.
And I'm thinking he'd never find them because we looked all over the country.
Well the next day about 11 o'clock he called me and he said I found your property.
I took it up with the governing body and we looked at the property and I loved it.
We told the town we wanted four or five hundred people.
Well before we got our final permit to build we had it up to 1,500.
And we're looking to adjust here and there to accommodate what we need there now.
Patterson has cooperated very well with us and it let us build anything we wanted to build.
And it's quite extensive.
The even the point now that they're made known if you want to expand you can still expand.
So we got a good relationship with Patterson.
How these projects have met the organization's need is amazing.
And at the proper time every one of these no matter what.
Today we have millions in the truth and the Bible tells us that we're going to grow and fill the earth.
How many millions of people will have in the truth when Armageddon comes?
We don't know. We don't know when Armageddon's coming.
We're not going backwards. We're going to continue going ahead.
Doing things more efficient or it means you're going to have to expand. You're going to have to build.
So you have to always be looking ahead.
Right to the end we're going to be giving us spiritual food at the right time.
We don't know what the Lord's going to use after the Great Tribulation immediately.
As Brother Couch said and Brother Larson felt the same way.
The Lord is running the organization. So we got to follow him.
And whatever he tells us we do it.
It's so interesting to see Jehovah's direction in locating useful properties.
And that brings us to a related subject. The title of the next video is a new construction project is being planned.
Please watch and enjoy the following presentation.
We live in a time when technology has allowed us to communicate the truth of God's Word in new and exciting ways.
Our modern world has seen advancements in printing, radio, television, computers and of course the Internet.
You likely can remember a time just a few short years ago when we released only a handful of videos every year.
But these now number into the hundreds with videos created for use in the ministry, midweek meetings,
GW broadcast programming, regional conventions.
And we can't forget the become Jehovah's Friend series.
Jehovah's organization has made use of videos over the years, over the decades.
But from 2014 forward we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of videos.
And that has really impacted how we teach and how we reach hearts.
Because of the demand for more videos, more space was needed.
So we purchased the Mount Ebo property.
And there we have been making many of our large video productions.
Well the response from the brothers and sisters in the field has been outstanding.
It's been amazing. It's actually been very encouraging for the teaching committee and the governing body to see how the brothers and sisters appreciate the videos, the music and the recordings that are produced.
It's helping them to really understand the teaching points and God's word.
It helps them to deal with the anxieties and pressures of life.
It really helps them to appreciate too what's happening around the world when they hear reports, dramatizations and interviews.
With this explosive growth and even more coming on the horizon.
The governing body has determined it's Jehovah's direction that we take further steps to support this expanded use of video.
So we are thrilled to announce an exciting initiative currently underway to accomplish this.
The creation of a site dedicated primarily to media production, the building of a new facility in Ramapo, New York.
Yes, the governing body has a proof construction of an additional World Headquarters complex on a 248 acre property purchased in 2009.
The property is located two miles or about three kilometers from the existing World Headquarters facility in Warwick.
Our objective is to build a facility similar in size to Warwick, which would include ten residence buildings, a main office building.
Eight studio spaces for audio video productions, a multi-purpose space including kitchen, dining and meeting area, plus a visitor center.
This will culminate in a location capable of housing over 1,000 volunteers with 920 office spaces and will accommodate audio video services,
text processing, writing correspondence and the art department.
Planning and engineering are already underway.
We are beginning our discussions with the local authorities on this project.
In Jehovah willing, we hope to start site work in 2022 and have a completed facility by December 31, 2026.
One year ago this week, in October, the teaching committee was discussing all that has been asked of audio video services, all the videos that they're producing,
and we could see that it was a little bit difficult because this department was spread out over four different complexes, ten different buildings and 16 different floors.
So working together and collaborating has been a little difficult being spread out.
If you go back some years, it was planned to increase the Bethel facility, expand the Bethel facility at Patterson, New York.
Yet at that time, there were two large construction projects underway at Walgill and Warwick.
So another construction project, it was just not feasible at that time, but audio video services still had needs, immediate needs.
So at that time, the governing body approved to purchase the building in Mount Ebo as a temporary solution.
The use of video in our teaching programs was exploding, and so there was a need for much more studio space and the associated spaces to support video production.
After searching the area of Patterson for additional space, this property in Mount Ebo rose to the top, was a smooth transaction, and we were in renovating and using the space very quickly, which all of us have benefited from since.
And the intent was that AVS would use it for ten years or so, and then when a more permanent facility became available, the Mount Ebo would be sold to recoup the original purchase price.
So Ramapo will become that more permanent studio location.
When any functional department is split up over multiple locations, it can involve a degree of inefficiency, and it can also involve a doubling up of tasks,
which creates a complex framework for anyone to operate.
So having all audio video services operating out of one facility will surely mean a much more collaborative environment for those brothers and sisters to work in.
And the end result obviously will affect the preaching work that we do, and also the teaching that we get in our meetings at the assemblies and conventions.
To be able to consolidate the operations, design was put together, costing was put to the design that was presented to the governing body.
And they gave us the okay to go ahead and then meet again with the town of Ramapo, which now a decade later was an entirely new group of officials.
To meet with them to see if we'd still get the same positive reception.
And we had an excellent reception from them. They seemed to welcome us with open arms.
Obviously we're going to have to meet their code and criteria, but they seem as though they want to have us develop that site as an audio video facility.
Over the period of time that we held the property, we tried to sell it at different times.
But despite our best efforts in a variety of different marketing exercises, there was very little interest expressed in the property at this time.
And so when we began thinking about expansion again, it was logical to look through a property we already owned.
For almost a year now we've been working with pre-construction activities. And of course that means thousands and thousands of hours in project planning and project design to be able to meet the requirements of the town and the state to be able to obtain a building permit for the project.
And of course once that building permit is obtained and we've actually put shovel to the ground, then we would expect that we'd have four years or less to actually deliver the project.
In recent projects that the governing body has directed such as the Britain branch, adaptability was foremost in the design of the offices.
So therefore office space could be reconfigured as the needs of departments and functions at the branch changed on the Britain project.
Some of the exciting no design features were for example there was no central laundry. So each room has laundry facilities in it so the occupant can do their own laundry.
The multipurpose building on that site is a building that can be easily configured to various different functions.
Creating a building that is modular allows the brothers as the needs evolve to modify the building with the smallest amount of renovation costs possible.
These no design features are very flexible in their nature and that's very helpful because our dynamic organization is moving quickly and changes come fast as well.
That allows us to move with it. We can reconfigure spaces without any major expense and keep up with those changes that will be made.
The Ramapo Audio Video Studios will be the largest in our organization. There have been other audio video studios constructed around the world and lessons learned from these are already being brought forward to the Ramapo AV studio.
But that means we need you. We need your prayers, your support, your strong backs because this project will call for thousands of volunteers.
With as many as 1,500 volunteers a day during the peak of construction. But we have utmost confidence in Psalm 110 and verse 3 when it says your people will offer themselves willingly on the day of your military force.
So do not hold back. Do whatever you can to support this exciting new initiative.
We will need thousands upon thousands of willing volunteers who are available for one week to one month or six months wherever the case may be to help with this project.
On recent large scale projects we found it very successful to hire contractors for the specialized or the heavily mechanised parts of the work.
Such as the steel superstructures or the concrete superstructures of the buildings, the building envelopes, cladding or roofing and then to get volunteers to carry out the all important hidden work or where the detail really makes the difference.
For example the underground utilities or the site works, the mechanical and electrical fit out of the buildings as well as the all important finishes.
We want to work with the LDC to identify brothers and sisters that can help and be trained now. They could either be assigned to local projects with the LDC.
Some of them could be invited to start helping on renovation projects like the one at Patterson. And this will allow us to start giving them valuable training now that will be useful on the Ramapo project.
We're hoping on the Ramapo project that Jehovah's Spirit will energise the brotherhood again as it did at Warwick and also in the Britain project.
Really seen from the initial concept design through the estimating and establishing budgets and reviewing the personnel needs all the way to the first initial meetings with the town.
Prayerful consideration was given by all the brothers and sisters involved and so we could really see in every one of those decisions that Jehovah was steering this project and he knows already how it will be completed.
Going back more than a decade ago from between 2005 to 2009, when we were searching for property, these two properties became available and they both seemed as though they were suitable.
And it was the organization's decision to go with one and not develop the other. Now when it seems like there is a real need, we can develop the second property that we already have, that we already own and we already have a good reception with.
To me, those things are face strengthening because what I see is that the work we were doing a decade ago and that the brothers and sisters and work involved with it in the branch committee, we didn't know what the outcome might be.
And we didn't know what the use might be over this last decade. But now what we have is something that can be very suitable as we move forward.
And to me, that's face strengthening. I see Jehovah's hand in that.
Projects like this, in addition to serving a very practical need, offer an opportunity for Jehovah's people to show their thankfulness and their zeal for him.
And as we experience with Warwick, just the project alone and the participation of our brothers and sisters from all over the country resulted in a spiritual blessing to thousands of individuals, their families and their congregations.
And we fully expect this project will have the same positive effect.
On a project of this scale, the early strategic decisions are absolutely crucial.
Now what we've seen with the design and project planning teams coming together, with the plans for the support, feeding, housing and care of the volunteers,
with the spirit that's already evident amongst those who are involved in the project. And also the strong backing of the Governor Body, we clearly see that Jehovah's hand is with us.
James, four eight states, draw close to God and he will draw close to you.
Yes, Jehovah is allowing once every opportunity to draw close to him as never before.
And he is speaking to them through his inspired word, as well as vivid artwork, beautiful music and heart-touching videos.
And it's the feeling of the entire governing body that this new site will allow us to produce even more wonderful products to help us to do just that.
Good to note your enthusiasm.
You're encouraging to hear that information. This was the first part.
In parts two and three of the annual meeting, you'll hear six talks by governing body members that refine our understanding of Bible truths and strengthen our trust in Jehovah.
Make sure to watch them when they appear in the video on the month section of JW Broadcasting in the next few weeks.
To conclude this month's program, let's travel to Papua Nagini. It is located in the southwestern Pacific Ocean.
Papua Nagini covers the eastern half of the island of New Guinea and includes other islands and atolls.
There are three official languages in Papua Nagini. English, Harry Motu and the most widely used official language, Tok Pisin.
Besides these three official languages, it is estimated that there are over 800 other languages spoken here.
Many of these have fewer than 1,000 people. This presents a huge challenge in the ministry.
Our brothers use preaching cards and high traffic areas to catch the attention of those passing by.
And they use these videos available in the local language to teach the good news.
And the Quiver Golo congregation, they walk up to five hours just to reach their scattered territory.
Their determination in the preaching work is producing good fruit.
The 34 publishers are conducting an average of 38 Bible studies.
They hold their congregation meetings in Harry Motu and their preaching is done primarily in the local language of Tubulamo.
When building the kingdom, these brothers did all of the excavation manually since machines were not available.
Then they carried all of the building supplies up the mountain by hand. A trip that takes two to three hours.
Our brothers send you their warm love and greetings. And we send ours in return.
May Jehovah bless their love and their zeal for his name.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.